 At the USA TODAY Network, we take our job as one of America’s biggest journalism watchdogs seriously. We have dozens of investigative reporters covering communities across the country, from the halls of Congress and the White House to city halls in more than 100 communities. They stand ready to act on important tips. If you have information about wrongdoing or about illegal or unethical behavior by people in power, we invite you to share your tips with us. A good tip involves specific evidence of wrongdoing, not just a hunch. By providing us information, you are agreeing that the USA TODAY Network can use your submission in any manner or media. No communication system is completely secure. But if you feel it is important to remain anonymous, here are the safest ways to share sensitive information, documents and data. The safest way to send secure information is by U.S. Mail. You can reach us at: 
                Investigations Editor
                USA TODAY Network
                7950 Jones Branch Drive
                McLean, VA 22102
             You can share information with us anonymously using our SecureDrop system. Our system uses Tor and follows best practices established by the Freedom of the Press Foundation. Your information will be dropped onto a secure computer under our physical control and specially designated for this purpose. Any information you send will be stored in encrypted format and only accessed on a computer that is not connected to the Internet. It will only be handled by journalists who have been trained to deal with the most sensitive material. Everything you do on the internet leaves a trail. Keep in mind that what we do here to protect you is only part of the equation. The rest is up to you. Don’t access our SecureDrop server from your home or office. Use a public wi-fi hotspot at a place you don’t frequent. Consider using the Tails operating system. No system, including SecureDrop, is fail safe. While we follow best practices to minimize risk and to protect sources of confidential information, there is always some risk, especially if you don’t take your own precautions when communicating with us. Details on protecting your identity using SecureDrop are available at: https://docs.securedrop.org/en/latest/source.html