 The nation's news.  Dr. Tameka Cage Conley has created a course in Emory University’s Oxford College on the life of filmmaker, actor and philanthropist Tyler Perry.  When Weston Mazey returned to the baseball field four months after a life-threatening head injury, the opposition gave him a touching welcome back.  President Joe Biden made a stop in Florida to survey damage done by Hurricane Ian and pledged millions to small businesses impacted from the storm.  Producers of "Rust," including Alec Baldwin, announced they've settled a lawsuit with Halyna Hutchins' family. Film production will resume in 2023.  The odd looking Mad Bat flying machine may be the future of flight, according to the Romanian team that developed it.  Given that no one team looks untouchable, Caroline Darney gives her reasoning on why she thinks a few dark horse teams, including USC and Oklahoma State, have a chance to sneak into the CFP.  Bobby Weir is looking back and working for the future. Weir, the iconic Grateful Dead singer and guitarist, will celebrate the 50th anniversary of his 1972 debut solo LP "Ace" with the release of a special deluxe edition next year. But Weir is giving fans an early preview of the set with one …  Want to sip wine in Chile or have dinner in the desert in the United Arab Emirates for free? Now is your chance. Oceania Cruises is offering passengers free land programs on select sailings to destinations including Africa, Australia, and the Middle East next year. The add-ons will be available on …  As European consumers may soon be able to use just one charger for all mobile phones and tablets, the question looms: Will your iPhone here in America also soon get a USB-C connector? The European Parliament approved Tuesday a law requiring a uniform charging cord for all smartphones and mobile …  ASHBURN, Va. — Five weeks ago, Brian Robinson laid in a hospital bed as the victim of an attempted robbery that left him with two gunshot wounds. "That," Robinson said Wednesday, "was probably the lowest point I've ever been in my life. "My passion for this game runs so deep. I never thought I'd be …  Happy Wednesday, OnPolitics readers! It's Ella. There's nothing like a Florida hurricane to whip up presidential politics, David Jackson writes. Just a week after Hurricane Ian slammed into Florida, President Joe Biden is visiting the state today to assess recovery efforts and talk to affected …  MEMPHIS – They don’t think the Memphis Grizzlies will be as good this season as they were last season. Once you sift through all the praise and perceived slights, that’s what the NBA's general managers are telling you right now. You should thank them. The NBA’s annual GM survey pegged Memphis as the …