 Maxcy Hall 120A Vahid Behzadan is an Assistant Professor in Computer Science and Data Science. He is also the founder and director of the Secure and Assured Intelligent Learning (SAIL) research group, and mentors the University's hacking team. Dr. Behzadan's research is primarily on the safety and security of artificial intelligence and complex adaptive systems. His pioneering work on the security of deep reinforcement learning is recognized as seminal contributions to this growing field of research. Dr. Behzadan's recent work includes publications on the applications of machine learning to security and safety assessment of complex systems, such as driverless cars, unmanned aerial systems, and smart cities. He has presented numerous invited talks on the security of machine learning, and applications of data science in cybersecurity at venues such as the Open Web Application Security Project (OWSAP) foundation, the Black Hat conference, and UK's Transportation Research Laboratory (TRL). His research on the psychopathological approach to AI safety has been featured in national and international news. Dr. Behzadan received his Ph.D. from Kansas State University, where he also co-founded the K-State AI Safety Research Initiative. Previously, he was at the Computer Networking Lab, University of Nevada in Reno and the Microwave research group at the University of Birmingham, UK. He received his B. Eng. in computer and communication systems engineering from the University of Birmingham, UK, and his M.S. in computer science from the University of Nevada, Reno. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cyber security, computer and electrical engineering, explains what stir-shaken technology is and how it works on cell phones. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cyber security, computer and electrical engineering, talks about the odds of winning one of the biggest jackpots in Mega Millions’ history. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cyber security, computer and electrical engineering, discusses the inherent risks of using an app that tracks your personal information, such as a woman's menstrual cycle, in the wake of Roe v. Wade. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity, computer science, and electrical engineering, says LinkedIn accounts may contain too much personal information that data scammers and scrappers could use to access individuals’ financial information. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, associate professor of cybersecurity, computer and electrical engineering, talks about how artificial intelligence works and the ethical challenges and uses. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cyber security, computer and electrical engineering, discusses the pros and cons of Google collecting information about users. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cyber security, computer and electrical engineering, says because of their nature, “Cupid scams” may be difficult to detect as most people may never meet the person they are dating, except online. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cyber security, computer and electrical engineering, says an incident impacting Bradley International Airport caused no interruption to the air traffic controllers or flight operations, only sending an overflow of emails to the website to crash it. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cyber security, computer and electrical engineering, says there are ways to protect your information on smartphones, computers, and tablets from cyberattacks. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cyber security, computer and electrical engineering, says there are ways to protect your information from cyber-attacks. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cyber security, computer and electrical engineering, says there have been previous attempts by hackers and explains why extra care should be used when filing sensitive documents electronically. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity, computer and electrical engineering, says companies that do not align with the Russian government may become victims of hacking or cyberattacks. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity, computer and electrical engineering, says some of the apps used to limit sites for children essentially act as spyware. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity, computer and electrical engineering; Declan Hill, associate professor of investigations; Olena Lennon, an adjunct professor of political science and international affairs; David Sacco, a practitioner in residence of finance; and Howard Stoffer, professor of national security and international affairs, took part in a panel discussion on the war in Ukraine and it’s impact. The special program was part of collaboration with WFSB, with the show airing on WFSB+ and WFSB’s Facebook page. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity, computer and electrical engineering; Declan Hill, associate professor of investigations; Olena Lennon, an adjunct professor of political science and international affairs; David Sacco, a practitioner in residence of finance; and Howard Stoffer, professor of national security and international affairs,  took part in a panel discussion on the war in Ukraine and its impact. The special program was part of collaboration with WFSB, with the show airing on WFSB+ and WFSB’s Facebook page. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and computer and electrical engineering, says there is a reason for concern that Russia could use cyberattacks against countries that may sanction them. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity, computer and electrical engineering, took part in a panel discussion on cyberattacks that Russia could employ against Ukraine or other countries across the globe. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity, computer and electrical engineering, gives some helpful advice for users to protect their information from cybercriminals. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity, computer, and electrical engineering, talks about the possibility of cybersecurity attacks  from Russia aimed at the United States. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity, says that New York could be one of the targets by Russian hackers, especially on supply chains. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer and electrical engineering and cybersecurity, talks about the security risk to computer devices and online services if a couple shares a password and then breaks up. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer and electrical engineering and cybersecurity, discusses, “dark patterns,” design choices that occur interfaces that result in users giving information unknowingly. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer and electrical engineering and cybersecurity, talks about the issues of older aviation technology that may be disrupted if  5G service is implemented close to an airport. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer and electrical engineering, and cybersecurity, says one of the biggest hurdles in cybersecurity is overcoming apathy, saying, two-factor authentication is necessary for users. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments on the number of disruptions this year for internet systems and cloud providers. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer and electrical engineering, and cybersecurity, comments on the many points of failure that affect the global experience of the internet with repeated outages. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer and electrical engineering, and cybersecurity says there is cause for concern there have been repeated outages in a short period for AWS. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer and data engineering, and cybersecurity, comments on an app parents use to track their children’s whereabouts and usage on their cell phones. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity, computer and electrical engineering, says that the technology used by juveniles making school threats can be traceable on a virtual private network. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity, computer and electrical engineering, talks about how AI technology is helping to combat human trafficking around the world. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity, computer and electrical engineering, talks about how to help protect your personal information from cybercrime and data breaches. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity, computer and electrical engineering, talks about cookies and how websites use them to track activity online. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science and computer engineering, says it is not hard to break into a computer, but if the hackers can get away with it. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science, and computer engineering, talks about the risks of smart TVs and how to protect yourself from hackers. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science, and computer engineering, comments on possible reasons the CIA may have purchased the encrypted messaging platform Wickr. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science and computer engineering, talks about cybercriminal activity using extortion seems to be on the rise across the country. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science and computer engineering, talks about the popular app "What's App" and some security features to help protect your privacy. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science, and computer engineering, talks about phishing and specific measures to reduce the probability of them succeeding. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science and computer engineering, talks about cybersecurity, AI, cryptocurrency origins and computer hacking. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and network, data science and computer engineering, talks about the recent targets and frequency of ransomware attacks. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science and computer engineering, talks about possible security issues for users of Amazon Sidewalk. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science and computer engineering, talks about how to protect personal information from cyber thieves. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science, and computer engineering, talks about the use of deep fakes and how hard they are to detect. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor for cybersecurity and networks, data science, and computer engineering, comments on how the app failed to provide users with a level of control over their data. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science, and computer engineering, comments on the Venmo app and the security exposure for President Biden and his family. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor for cybersecurity and computer engineering, comments on the vulnerability from using an app, like President Biden did with his Venmo account. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer and electrical engineering and computer science, talks about the cyberattack on the Colonial Pipeline. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer and electrical engineering and computer science, talks about how AI has become a part of warfare with autonomous weapons. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer and electrical engineering and computer science, comments on the readiness of the US to compete internationally on AI. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about the feasibility of electromagnetic pulses used to disable security systems and computer equipment. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments on the military being one of the largest sources of funding for applied science and engineering research. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about the odds of winning the big jackpots. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments that the cyber-attack on U.S. agencies appears to be mainly espionage by Russia. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about the concern of the phishing scam that was launched against the Department of Labor. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, has partnered with Love Justice International to develop machine learning tools for monitoring and tracking indicators of human trafficking on social media and online. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments how the lack of physical supervision and inspection can compromise the DoD’s core mission. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about the demand for laptops and tablets amid the pandemic. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments on the concern this type of tools has for spamming or “fake news”. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about this type of malware and the effect on computers. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about the recent ransomware attack on the Hartford Public School system and what it means. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about how ransomware infects data. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about how the aggregation of data may reveal your identity. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments on growing numbers of fraud as more people are working from home. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, discusses the recent types of cyber-attacks, including ransomware. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, gave an in-depth interview on cybersecurity, AI and as the director of the Secure and Assured Intelligent Learning (SAIL) Lab. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments on the security risks for using Zoom at the Department of Defense. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, discusses the recent cyberattack on HHS. In the Media Summer Johnson McGee, dean of the School of Health Sciences, and Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer science in the Tagliatela College of Engineering, discuss how coronavirus is impacting their field of expertise. The Charger Blog Faculty members from across the University are joining School of Health Sciences public health researchers in sharing their expertise in areas ranging from the economy and technology to travel and tourism to examine the global impact of the coronavirus outbreak. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer science, discusses leveraging recent advances in AI for enhancement of vaccine strategies. In the Media Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D., assistant professor of computer science, discusses the possible need of psychology for AI in the future.  In the Media A paper written by Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D., assistant professor of computer science, “Psychopathological Approach to Safety Engineering in AI and AGI” is discussed. In the Media A paper about the future need of AI psychologists, written by Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D., assistant professor of computer science, is discussed. In the Media Listen to the ABC News Interview Recording with Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D., assistant professor of computer science, about the future need of AI psychologists. In the Media A paper written by Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D., assistant professor of computer science, about the future need of AI psychologists is discussed.